README.md, before:

# Facebook messenger extension
Integration with Facebook messenger API. You will be able to chat with Facebook page users directly in lhc back office.
 * Bot support. [New] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_rLPJAdn4Us Supported bot elements
    * Text messages including Quick Replies - `Send Text`
    * Typing - `Send typing`
    * Carrousel - `Send Carrousel`
    * Buttons - `Button list`
    * All other triggers including internal operations also will work.
    * To listed for "Get Started" button action just listen for text message with content "GET_STARTED" also see demo bot in official demo.
 * Support multiple pages without creating new app for each page.
 * Supports multiple pages at once.
 * Each page chat can be assigned to custom department.

# Update instructions

* Make sure you have most recent Live Helper Chat version.
* Update database via `php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/update_structure` command
* `Modules -> Facebook chat -> Save and Activate WhatsApp` configuration. Click it if you are using WhatsApp integration.

# Installation in your LHC server
* Upload the files to your `lhc_web/extension/fbmessenger` folder
* Install database either by executing `doc/install.sql` file or executing this command `php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/update_structure`
* Install dependencies using composer
    * `cd extension/fbmessenger && composer install`
    * Just for newbies if your webhosting does not have composer see https://www.vultr.com/docs/install-composer-on-centos-7
    * don't run composer as root, login in your ssh as your hosting normal user.
* Activate extension in main settings file `lhc_web/settings/settings.ini.php` extension section `fbmessenger` by Adding lines: 
```
'extensions' =>  array (  'fbmessenger',  ),
```
* If you don't see this in Module, check your `lhc_web/settings/settings.ini.php` and also click `Clean Cache` from back office
* copy `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.default.php` to `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php`

# WhatsApp configuration

This configuration option is available with [Permanent Access Token](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/business-management-api/get-started#1--acquire-an-). In the future we might add a Login option.
In facebook Extension settings you have to enter
* Permanent WhatsApp access token -  [Permanent Access Token](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/business-management-api/get-started#1--acquire-an-).
* WhatsApp Business Account ID - You will find it in `WhatsApp-> Getting` Started section of the facebook app
* WhatsApp `Verify Token` - just put any random string.
* Click `Save and Activate WhatsApp configuration` it will install and configure all the required webhooks etc.
* Go to Facebook App `WhatsApp-> Configuration` section and set Callback URL while entering `Verify Token` you have put in settings page.
* Subscribe to messages field.
* Bot sample what is supported can be found [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/whatsapp/bot-sample.json)
* If you change WhatsApp Access Token or updating click `Save And Remove WhatsApp configuration` and `Save and Activate WhatsApp configuration`. You might need to setup webhook again.
* If you are using PHPResque extension make sure you set correct domain
  * https://github.com/LiveHelperChat/livehelperchat/blob/master/lhc_web/settings/settings.ini.default.php#L30
  * https://github.com/LiveHelperChat/lhc-php-resque/blob/master/lhcphpresque/settings/settings.ini.default.php
* Sample commands you can use in the bot while sending text message. To get exact command for specific template just send a test message and at the top you will see command.

```
!fbtemplate {"template_name":"hello_world","template_lang":"en_us","args":{}}
!fbtemplate {"template_name":"quick_reply","template_lang":"en","args":{"field_1":"name","field_header_1":"header"}}
```

![See image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/whatsapp/whats-app-configuration.png)

From WhatsApp perspective we support `images`, `text`, `video`, `audio`, `contact`, `location`, `sticker`, `document` messages types

To send campaign of template messages this cronjob has to be setup.

## How to listen for quick reply actions from templates you send?

Each quick reply button send from lhc get's payload constructed as.

> `$item->template.'-quick_reply_'.$indexButton,` => `quick_reply-quick_reply_0`

This is needed because we don't have chat upfront and can't set payload upfront.

So just listen for `Custom text matching` with that keyword. This sample is provided [in bot sample](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/whatsapp/bot-sample.json)

## Gotchas

* While app is in testing mode received callback phone number and received callback numbers can be different. E.g
  * 3706111111 received from callback
  * To send this number back you have to set 370**8**6111111. Notice 8
* After you activate extension to handle this problem you might need to edit incoming webhook rule
  * This rule depends on phone number you have
  * `Chat ID field replace rule` set to `/^370/is`
  * `Chat ID field replace value` set to `3708`

```shell
php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/masssending
```

# One page one app installation workflow

This method is usefull if you are planning to use this extension by creating separate apps for each page you manage.

* Now you can create facebook page in `Modules -> Facebook chat -> Facebook pages -> Register new page` (later you will have this info from facebook developer section) 
* While creating facebook page check `Application was verified by facebook` otherwise we will not send request to facebook. Save page.
* Once page is created you will see what callback url you have to put in facebook webhook. URL is presented in list. HTTPS is must!
* Facebook APP has to use 8.0v or newer

## Actions to do in developers.facebook.com and Live Helper Chat back office

* `APP secret` - Copy App Secret from `Settings -> Basic`
* `Verify token` - put any random string without spaces.
* `Page token` - follow steps bellow 
 * Click `Products +` in facebook back office and choose `Messenger` as product you want to add to your APP
 * Click `Messenger -> Settings` your app page
 * In `Access Tokens` section click `Add or Removes pages` there you will get `Token` which you have to put in `Page token` field.
* Now in `Webhooks` section of `Messenger -> Settings` page `Edit Callback URL`. Facebook to verify callback URL will ask you to enter `Verify token` and callback url. Callback URL you will see in pages list. 
* In same `Webhooks` add Page from which you want to receive messages. As subscription fields choose `messages, messaging_postbacks, message_deliveries, message_reads, messaging_pre_checkouts, messaging_checkout_updates, messaging_referrals, message_echoes, standby, messaging_handovers, message_reactions`

So at the end everything should look like

![See image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/access_token.png)

![See image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/webhooks.png)

# One account multiple page installation workflow

This workflow is usefull if you are planning to use more than one page per facebook account.

* Your facebook application has to have "pages_messaging" permission for lhc to be able to extract visitor information and be able to send messages back to lhc. For that you will have to submit application and wait for FB to review it.
* Set webhook callback to url similar to this. `https://example.com/fbmessenger/callbackgeneral` verify token you have to put in `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php` file.
* `Valid OAuth Redirect URLs` should look like `https://example.com/site_admin/fbmessenger/fbcallback`
* We request these scopes `email, pages_show_lis, pages_messaging, pages_messaging_subscriptions`
* If you did everything correctly you should be able to login from facebook and grant access Live Helper Chat to see your pages and subscribe to messages events.

# One app multiple servers installation

This scenario is usefull in case you have multiple clients and each client has it's own server or address. You can have one master instance which will act as Master and will forward all incoming request from facebook to correct URL of child server.

To activate that option you have to edit `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php` and set options similar to below

```
'standalone' => array (
        'enabled' => true,
        'secret_hash' => 'random_string_to_out',
        'address' => 'https://mater.example.com' // Master instance address
    ),
```

In facebook `Valid OAuth Redirect URIs` has to be changed to E.g

```
https://mater.example.com/site_admin/fbmessenger/fbcallbackstandalone
```

`Messenger -> Settings` Webhooks `Callback URL` has to be set to

```
https://mater.example.com/fbmessenger/callbackstandalone
```

## Then Submit to facebook to validate your app
* Before facebook validates your application keep settings `verified` false (in your LHC facebook page configuration)*
* After facebook has reviewed your application set "verified" to *YES*. So you will be able to send a messages. During testing, if you add some developer, you can set it to true to see how it works.
 
## Finally Make your app public. 
 * After facebook has reviewed your application you need to make your app live and available
 
# How it works
Once visitor writes a message in facebook page. You will receive a chat with visitor.

# How to debug
in `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php` change setting to `'enable_debug' => true` if you have verified site. Check `cache/default.log` for more detailed error.

# How to install extensions using DigitalOcean?

Execute these commands

```
/opt/livehelperchat/lhc_upgrade.sh
cd /var/www/git
git clone https://github.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger.git
cd /var/www/git/fbmessenger
php -r "copy('https://getcomposer.org/installer', 'composer-setup.php');"
php composer-setup.php
php -r "unlink('composer-setup.php');"
./composer.phar install
cd /var/www/html/extension
ln -s /var/www/git/fbmessenger
cp /var/www/html/extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.default.php /var/www/html/extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php 
php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/update_structure
```

If you are using instance as standalone copy all content from master instance `/var/www/html/extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php`

Activate extension by editing

```
vi /var/www/html/settings/settings.ini.php
```

And make `extensions` section look like

```
'extensions' => 
  array (
	0 => 'nodejshelper',
	1 => 'lhcphpresque',
	2 => 'fbmessenger',
  ),
```

Setup cronjob to renew SSL automatically

```
crontab -e
```

And add this line

```
0 */12 * * * /usr/bin/certbot renew --post-hook "systemctl reload nginx" >> /var/log/le-renew.log
```

# Todo
 * Add support for images, not just plain messages.
 * Add support for automated hosting environment.
 * Get facebook user details like email or phone.

Commit message:

Master contact (#36)
Campaign sending support for WhatsApp messaging.

README.md, after:

# Facebook messenger extension
Integration with Facebook messenger API. You will be able to chat with Facebook page users directly in lhc back office.
 * Bot support. [New] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_rLPJAdn4Us Supported bot elements
    * Text messages including Quick Replies - `Send Text`
    * Typing - `Send typing`
    * Carrousel - `Send Carrousel`
    * Buttons - `Button list`
    * All other triggers including internal operations also will work.
    * To listed for "Get Started" button action just listen for text message with content "GET_STARTED" also see demo bot in official demo.
 * Support multiple pages without creating new app for each page.
 * Supports multiple pages at once.
 * Each page chat can be assigned to custom department.

# Update instructions

* Make sure you have most recent Live Helper Chat version.
* Update database via `php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/update_structure` command
* `Modules -> Facebook chat -> Save and Activate WhatsApp` configuration. Click it if you are using WhatsApp integration.

# Installation in your LHC server
* Upload the files to your `lhc_web/extension/fbmessenger` folder
* Install database either by executing `doc/install.sql` file or executing this command `php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/update_structure`
* Install dependencies using composer
    * `cd extension/fbmessenger && composer install`
    * Just for newbies if your webhosting does not have composer see https://www.vultr.com/docs/install-composer-on-centos-7
    * don't run composer as root, login in your ssh as your hosting normal user.
* Activate extension in main settings file `lhc_web/settings/settings.ini.php` extension section `fbmessenger` by Adding lines: 
```
'extensions' =>  array (  'fbmessenger',  ),
```
* If you don't see this in Module, check your `lhc_web/settings/settings.ini.php` and also click `Clean Cache` from back office
* copy `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.default.php` to `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php`

# WhatsApp configuration

This configuration option is available with [Permanent Access Token](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/business-management-api/get-started#1--acquire-an-). In the future we might add a Login option.
In facebook Extension settings you have to enter
* Permanent WhatsApp access token -  [Permanent Access Token](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/business-management-api/get-started#1--acquire-an-).
* WhatsApp Business Account ID - You will find it in `WhatsApp-> Getting` Started section of the facebook app
* WhatsApp `Verify Token` - just put any random string.
* Click `Save and Activate WhatsApp configuration` it will install and configure all the required webhooks etc.
* Go to Facebook App `WhatsApp-> Configuration` section and set Callback URL while entering `Verify Token` you have put in settings page.
* Subscribe to messages field.
* Bot sample what is supported can be found [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/whatsapp/bot-sample.json)
* If you change WhatsApp Access Token or updating click `Save And Remove WhatsApp configuration` and `Save and Activate WhatsApp configuration`. You might need to setup webhook again.
* If you are using PHPResque extension make sure you set correct domain
  * https://github.com/LiveHelperChat/livehelperchat/blob/master/lhc_web/settings/settings.ini.default.php#L30
  * https://github.com/LiveHelperChat/lhc-php-resque/blob/master/lhcphpresque/settings/settings.ini.default.php
* Sample commands you can use in the bot while sending text message. To get exact command for specific template just send a test message and at the top you will see command.

```
!fbtemplate {"template_name":"hello_world","template_lang":"en_us","args":{}}
!fbtemplate {"template_name":"quick_reply","template_lang":"en","args":{"field_1":"name","field_header_1":"header"}}
```

![See image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/whatsapp/whats-app-configuration.png)

From WhatsApp perspective we support `images`, `text`, `video`, `audio`, `contact`, `location`, `sticker`, `document` messages types

To send campaign of template messages this cronjob has to be setup.

## How to listen for quick reply actions from templates you send?

Each quick reply button send from lhc get's payload constructed as.

> `$item->template.'-quick_reply_'.$indexButton,` => `quick_reply-quick_reply_0`

This is needed because we don't have chat upfront and can't set payload upfront.

So just listen for `Custom text matching` with that keyword. This sample is provided [in bot sample](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/whatsapp/bot-sample.json)

## Gotchas

* While app is in testing mode received callback phone number and received callback numbers can be different. E.g
  * 3706111111 received from callback
  * To send this number back you have to set 370**8**6111111. Notice 8
* After you activate extension to handle this problem you might need to edit incoming webhook rule
  * This rule depends on phone number you have
  * `Chat ID field replace rule` set to `/^370/is`
  * `Chat ID field replace value` set to `3708`

## Cronjobs

This cronjob sends scheduled campaign messages and regular mass messages
Should be run every minute or more frequent.
```shell
php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/masssending
```

Collects campaign recipients and puts them in the main mass messages queue. 
Should be run every minute or more frequent.
```shell
php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/whatsapp_campaign
```

# One page one app installation workflow

This method is usefull if you are planning to use this extension by creating separate apps for each page you manage.

* Now you can create facebook page in `Modules -> Facebook chat -> Facebook pages -> Register new page` (later you will have this info from facebook developer section) 
* While creating facebook page check `Application was verified by facebook` otherwise we will not send request to facebook. Save page.
* Once page is created you will see what callback url you have to put in facebook webhook. URL is presented in list. HTTPS is must!
* Facebook APP has to use 8.0v or newer

## Actions to do in developers.facebook.com and Live Helper Chat back office

* `APP secret` - Copy App Secret from `Settings -> Basic`
* `Verify token` - put any random string without spaces.
* `Page token` - follow steps bellow 
 * Click `Products +` in facebook back office and choose `Messenger` as product you want to add to your APP
 * Click `Messenger -> Settings` your app page
 * In `Access Tokens` section click `Add or Removes pages` there you will get `Token` which you have to put in `Page token` field.
* Now in `Webhooks` section of `Messenger -> Settings` page `Edit Callback URL`. Facebook to verify callback URL will ask you to enter `Verify token` and callback url. Callback URL you will see in pages list. 
* In same `Webhooks` add Page from which you want to receive messages. As subscription fields choose `messages, messaging_postbacks, message_deliveries, message_reads, messaging_pre_checkouts, messaging_checkout_updates, messaging_referrals, message_echoes, standby, messaging_handovers, message_reactions`

So at the end everything should look like

![See image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/access_token.png)

![See image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger/master/doc/webhooks.png)

# One account multiple page installation workflow

This workflow is usefull if you are planning to use more than one page per facebook account.

* Your facebook application has to have "pages_messaging" permission for lhc to be able to extract visitor information and be able to send messages back to lhc. For that you will have to submit application and wait for FB to review it.
* Set webhook callback to url similar to this. `https://example.com/fbmessenger/callbackgeneral` verify token you have to put in `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php` file.
* `Valid OAuth Redirect URLs` should look like `https://example.com/site_admin/fbmessenger/fbcallback`
* We request these scopes `email, pages_show_lis, pages_messaging, pages_messaging_subscriptions`
* If you did everything correctly you should be able to login from facebook and grant access Live Helper Chat to see your pages and subscribe to messages events.

# One app multiple servers installation

This scenario is usefull in case you have multiple clients and each client has it's own server or address. You can have one master instance which will act as Master and will forward all incoming request from facebook to correct URL of child server.

To activate that option you have to edit `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php` and set options similar to below

```
'standalone' => array (
        'enabled' => true,
        'secret_hash' => 'random_string_to_out',
        'address' => 'https://mater.example.com' // Master instance address
    ),
```

In facebook `Valid OAuth Redirect URIs` has to be changed to E.g

```
https://mater.example.com/site_admin/fbmessenger/fbcallbackstandalone
```

`Messenger -> Settings` Webhooks `Callback URL` has to be set to

```
https://mater.example.com/fbmessenger/callbackstandalone
```

## Then Submit to facebook to validate your app
* Before facebook validates your application keep settings `verified` false (in your LHC facebook page configuration)*
* After facebook has reviewed your application set "verified" to *YES*. So you will be able to send a messages. During testing, if you add some developer, you can set it to true to see how it works.
 
## Finally Make your app public. 
 * After facebook has reviewed your application you need to make your app live and available
 
# How it works
Once visitor writes a message in facebook page. You will receive a chat with visitor.

# How to debug
in `extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php` change setting to `'enable_debug' => true` if you have verified site. Check `cache/default.log` for more detailed error.

# How to install extensions using DigitalOcean?

Execute these commands

```
/opt/livehelperchat/lhc_upgrade.sh
cd /var/www/git
git clone https://github.com/LiveHelperChat/fbmessenger.git
cd /var/www/git/fbmessenger
php -r "copy('https://getcomposer.org/installer', 'composer-setup.php');"
php composer-setup.php
php -r "unlink('composer-setup.php');"
./composer.phar install
cd /var/www/html/extension
ln -s /var/www/git/fbmessenger
cp /var/www/html/extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.default.php /var/www/html/extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php 
php cron.php -s site_admin -e fbmessenger -c cron/update_structure
```

If you are using instance as standalone copy all content from master instance `/var/www/html/extension/fbmessenger/settings/settings.ini.php`

Activate extension by editing

```
vi /var/www/html/settings/settings.ini.php
```

And make `extensions` section look like

```
'extensions' => 
  array (
	0 => 'nodejshelper',
	1 => 'lhcphpresque',
	2 => 'fbmessenger',
  ),
```

Setup cronjob to renew SSL automatically

```
crontab -e
```

And add this line

```
0 */12 * * * /usr/bin/certbot renew --post-hook "systemctl reload nginx" >> /var/log/le-renew.log
```

# Todo
 * Add support for images, not just plain messages.
 * Add support for automated hosting environment.
 * Get facebook user details like email or phone.
